feat: add posts about ssh connection (#654)
devopness/devopness: docs/ssh-keys/create-ssh-key-pair.md

---
title: Create an SSH key pair
intro: Sometimes you may need to connect to your servers using an SSH client to run terminal commands on your remote server. An SSH public key is used for secure authentication when you use an SSH client to connect to a server managed by Devopness. When you connect, you must provide the private key that matches the public key added to the remote server. Create an SSH private/public key pair to securely authenticate your server access on the new device. Several tools exist to generate SSH public/private key pairs. The following steps show how to generate an SSH key pair on UNIX and UNIX-like platforms.
links:
    overview:
    quickstart:
    previous:
        - /docs/ssh-keys
    next:
        - /docs/ssh-keys/add-ssh-key
    guides:
    related:
        - /docs/ssh-keys/add-ssh-key
        - /docs/ssh-keys/remove-ssh-key
    featured:
---

> 1. In a terminal window, run command below, substituting in your email address

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In a terminal window, run the command below, replacing `<your email address>` with a valid email address
```

links:
    overview:
    quickstart:
    previous:
        - /docs/ssh-keys
    next:
        - /docs/ssh-keys/add-ssh-key
    guides:
    related:
        - /docs/ssh-keys/add-ssh-key
        - /docs/ssh-keys/remove-ssh-key
    featured:
---

1. In a terminal window, run command below, substituting in your email address
    ```bash
    ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -C "<your email address>"
    ```
    > This creates a new SSH key, using the provided email as a label.
1. Follow the prompts to complete the creation of the new SSH Key pair
    > There should be 2 new files inside `$USER/.ssh` directory, `id_rsa` (private key) and `id_rsa.pub` (public key)

> 1. Add your private key to `ssh-agent`
>     ```bash
>     ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_rsa
>     ```

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Create an SSH key pair
intro: Sometimes you may need to connect to your servers on a new device. Create SSH keys to authenticate your server access on the new device.
links:
    overview:
    quickstart:
    previous:
        - /docs/ssh-keys
    next:
        - /docs/ssh-keys/add-ssh-key
    guides:
    related:
        - /docs/ssh-keys/add-ssh-key
        - /docs/ssh-keys/remove-ssh-key
    featured:
---

> 1. On Terminal, run command below, substituting in your Devopness email address

Author: ```suggestion
1. In a terminal window, run command below, substituting in your Devopness email address
```

> 1. In a terminal window, run command below, substituting in your Devopness email address

Author: ```suggestion
1. In a terminal window, run command below, substituting in your email address
```

    ```bash

>     ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -C "<your devopness email address>"

Reviewer: The e-mail address used as the comment of an SSH key does not need to be the same e-mail associated with the user's account on Devopness, neither needs to be an `@devopness` e-mail address, therefore saying `your devopness email address` might end up being a bit misleading:

```suggestion
    ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -C "<your email address>"
```

    ```
    > This creates a new SSH key, using the provided email as a label.

>     > Devopness is working to support the most populars cryptosystem keys types,
>     > for now we are are supporting RSA and DSA.
> 1. Follow the prompts to complete the creation of the new SSH Key pair

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Follow the prompts to complete the creation of the new SSH Key pair
```

    > There should be 2 new files inside `$USER/.ssh` directory, `id_rsa` (private key) and `id_rsa.pub` (public key)
1. Start the `ssh-agent`, using command:
    ```bash

>     eval "$(ssh-agent -s)"

Reviewer: 1. `eval` is `evil`, please do not instruct users to use such a risk command, neither in bash nor in any other programming language.
A bit of context if needed: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/17529220/why-should-eval-be-avoided-in-bash-and-what-should-i-use-instead
2. I don't see a benefit of adding the complexity of using `ssh-agent` + `ssh-add` to to a simple connection to a remote server. i would recommend keep things straight to the point. We should instruct users towards the simplest possible path to connect to the servers. Advanced use cases, such as `ssh-agente + ssh-add` to avoid [re]typing the passphrase all the time is beyond the scope of Devopness documentation.

Author: I meant no security harm, it was the way I personally learn to use SSH reading [GitHub documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent#adding-your-ssh-key-to-the-ssh-agent).

Until now, I thought that was the recommended path.

We can remove this step completely

Author: @jfoliveira text updated, removed `ssh-agent` and `ssh-add` mentions

> 1. Start the `ssh-agent`, using command:
>     ```bash
>     eval "$(ssh-agent -s)"
>     ```

Author: ```suggestion
```
